MOUTON’S BISTRO & BAR
Employee Handbook (Revised 2026)
Employee Handbook Welcome to our team! We welcome you to Mouton’s Bistro and look forward
to the opportunity to work with you. We want you to know that we recognize our employees as our
most valuable asset. Our continued success in providing the highest quality of food, beverages, and
service to our customers depends on having quality people like yourself and your fellow employees.
We want you to enjoy your time here and are committed to helping you to succeed in your new job.
We have prepared this handbook to answer some of the questions that you may have concerning
Mouton’s Bistro and it’s policies. This handbook is intended solely as a guide. Read it thoroughly. If
you have questions about anything, contact a manager for assistance. We hope you find your time
with us to be an enjoyable and rewarding experience! Once again, welcome to Mouton’s Bistro!
Sincerely, Ben and Rachel Mouton Company Information Mouton’s Bistro & Bar Mouton’s Bistro &
Bar 1821 S Lakeline Blvd #104 Leander, TX 78641 Cedar Park, TX 78613 (512) 260-6300 (512)
356-9300 Email manager@moutonsbistro.com cedarpark@moutonsbistro.com Website
www.moutonsbistro.com Mission Statement To sell delicious and remarkable food and drinks. That
the food and drink we sell meets the highest standards of quality, freshness and seasonality and
combines both modern- creative and traditional southern styles of cooking. To consistently provide
our customers with impeccable service by demonstrating warmth, graciousness, efficiency,
knowledge, professionalism and integrity in our work. To have every customer who comes through
our doors leave impressed by Mouton’s and excited to come back again. To create and maintain a
restaurant that is comprehensive and exceptional in its attention to every detail of operation. To
provide all who work with us a friendly, cooperative and rewarding environment that encourages
long- term, satisfying, growth employment. To keep our concept fresh, exciting and on the cutting
edge of the hospitality and entertainment industry. To be a giving member of the Cedar Park
community. Our way of doing business Mouton’s success depends on our people. Our restaurant
can only prosper and provide opportunities for employment and growth when we continually
improve ourselves and the work that we do. We recognize, however, that success is not measured
by sales, guest counts, and numbers alone. We are measured by how we treat our follow
employees and especially our guests. We believe that a commitment to uncompromising values
and integrity should always guide our decisions and actions as we pursue our goals. Following are
the core values that form the foundation of measurement of success. We believe in providing all
customers with the WOW factor. We want our customers to walk out of the door saying WOW!
WOW to the service, WOW to the food, WOW to the atmosphere, everything. We believe in
honesty and trust. We work to build trust with others in each and every transaction and interaction.
We recognize that honesty and trust form the bond that holds organizations and relationships
together. We believe in the ongoing training and development of our people. We see it as a worthy
investment in the future of the restaurant and a way of enabling our people to achieve their potential
in whatever they do. We believe our continued success depends on teamwork. We know that great
achievements are only possible from helping and respecting each other. We believe in doing
business in a professional and orderly manner. We take great pride in having good systems in
place to standardize our products and procedures. This handbook is designed to help you to get
familiarized with Mouton’s Bistro. We want you to understand how we do business and how
important you and every employee is in helping us take care of our guests and making this a fun
and rewarding place to work. The policies stated in this handbook may change from time to time. It
isn’t flawless either. We’ve done our best to include as much information as possible in an easy to
understand manner. This handbook is not a contract which guarantees your employment for any
specific time. Texas is an at-will work state. Either you or Mouton’s Bistro may terminate your
employment at any time, for any reason, with out cause or notice. Understand that no supervisor,
manager, or representative of Mouton’s other than Ben or Rachel Mouton has the authority to enter
into any agreement with you for employment for any specified period or to make any such promises
or commitments. We wish you the best of luck in your position and hope that your employment with
Mouton’s Bistro will be a very enjoyable and rewarding experience. Employment Policies It is the
policy of Mouton’s Bistro to hire only United States citizens and aliens who are authorized to work in
this country. As required by law, employees will be required to provide original documents that
establish this authorization within three days of their date of hire. If the documents are not provided
within the three day period, we have no choice, under the law, but to terminate the employee until
the required documents are provided. Employees and employers are both required to complete
form I-9 provided by the Department of Homeland Security. In Section 1 of form I-9, the information
provided by the employee must be valid and authentic. If at any time during an employee’s
employment, it is discovered that any document used was invalid or not authentic, the employee
must, by law, be immediately terminated. Non-Discrimination Mouton’s Bistro is an equal
opportunity employer. We will not tolerate discrimination based on race, sex, age, national origin,
religion, sexual orientation, or disability. Employment decisions, such as hiring, promotion,
compensation, training and discipline will be made only for legitimate business reasons based upon
qualifications and other nondiscriminatory factors. Age Requirements All servers and bartenders, as
per the law, much be at least 18 years of age. Employees under the age of 18 must comply with all
federal wage and hour guidelines, no exceptions. The required work permits much be supplied
when applicable. No employees under the age of 18 years can take orders for or serve alcoholic
beverages. Orientation Period You have been through our employee selection process, have been
selected for employment and appear to have the potential to develop into a successful employee.
However, we want the opportunity to begin the training period, get to know you, see how you fit in
with your co-workers and determine if you are willing and able to carry out the responsibilities for
the position in which you were hired. It’s also important for you to get to know us and become
familiar with how we operate to find out if this job is a We, therefore, have a 30 day Orientation
Period for that purpose referred to above. The 30 day period allows both you and the Company to
see whether or not it’s a good fit and if not, part company as friends. During the Orientation Period
you will begin your training and be observed by management. Also, during this time if you feel you
do not understand what’s expected of you or that you need additional training, we encourage you to
ask questions and seek additional help from our management staff. Training To help you be
successful in your job you will receive adequate training. You will not be expected to be on your
own until you are ready. You will participate in detailed training programs and receive training
materials to help you perform your job the right way. Your trainers are considered our “best” and
have been certified to train for that position. We spend considerable time and money educating our
trainers to prepare each new employee for their job. We want you to be a knowledgeable and
productive member of our staff. Evaluations All employees receive written and verbal performance
evaluations twice a year, in January and June. The evaluation process is intended to let you know
how well you’re performing and help you be more effective and productive. The evaluation also
gives you the opportunity to share your thoughts about your performance and future goals with your
manager. The evaluation process is an opportunity to identify accomplishments and strengths as
well openly discusses areas and goals for any improvement. Depending on your position and
performance, you may be eligible for a pay increase. Pay increases are not guaranteed. Rewards
are based solely on a person’s job performance and results. Schedules Schedules are prepared to
meet the work demands of the restaurant. As the work demands change, management reserves
the right to adjust working hours and shifts. Schedules are posted weekly every Wednesday,
through the Homebase App. Each employee is responsible for working his or her shifts. All requests
and shift changes should be handled through the app. You should arrive for your shift with enough
time to make sure you’re ready to work when your shift begins. We suggest that you arrive 10 to 15
minutes before your shift begins so that you have time to get settled and ready for your shift. You
should clock in when your shift begins and be ready to start work immediately. Employees must
enter and exit through the front door during business hours – not the back door. Schedule changes
may be allowed only if you find a replacement and get a manager’s approval. To be valid, the
manager must indicate and initial the change on the posted schedule. The restaurant usually
requires high levels of staff on or around holidays, sporting and other special events. We
understand that you have a life outside of the restaurant and will always try to find a way to work
with you on your schedule requests. We do, however, ask you to remember just how crucial each
position is to the proper functioning of the restaurant. Please remember that even though we will try
to comply with your requests, there is no assurance that you will get the requested time off.
Overtime In accordance with Federal Minimum Wage Law, employees are paid overtime when they
work more than 40 hours in one week. Hourly employees are paid at one and one- half times their
basic straight time rate for all overtime hours worked. Tip credit will be factored into the hourly rate
for tipped employees. Standards of Conduct Consistent with our Mission and values, it is important
for all employees to be fully aware of the rules, which govern our conduct and behavior. In order to
work together as a team and maintain an orderly, productive and positive working environment,
everyone must conform to standards of reasonable conduct and policies of the Restaurant. AN
EMPLOYEE INVOLVED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CONDUCT MAY RESULT IN
DISCIPLINARY ACTION UP TO AND INCLUDING IMMEDIATE TERMINATION WITHOUT A
WRITTEN WARNING. 1. Invalid Work Authorization (I-9 form) 2. Supplying false or misleading
information to the Restaurant, including information at the time of application for employment, leave
of absence or sick pay. 3. Not showing up for a shift without notifying the Manager on duty. (No call,
no show, no job) 4. Clocking another employee “in” or “out” on the Restaurant timekeeping system
or having another employee clock you either “in” or “out.” 5. Leaving your job before the scheduled
time without the permission of the Manager on duty. 6. Arrest or conviction of a felony offense. 7.
Use of foul or abusive language. 8. Disorderly or indecent conduct. 9. Gambling on Restaurant
property. 10. Theft of customer, employee or Restaurant property including items found on
Restaurant premises. 11. Theft, dishonesty or mishandling of Restaurant funds. Failure to follow
cash, guest check or credit card processing procedures. 12. Refusal to follow instructions. 13.
Engaging in harassment of any kind toward another employee or customer. 14. Failure to
consistently perform job responsibilities in a satisfactory manner within the 90 day orientation
period. 15. Use, distribution or possession of illegal drugs on Restaurant property or being under
the influence of these substances when reporting to work or during work hours. 16. Waste or
destruction of Restaurant property. 17. Actions or threats of violence or abusive language directed
toward a customer or another staff member. 18. Excessive tardiness. 19. Habitual failure to punch
in or out. 20. Disclosing confidential information including policies, procedures, recipes, manuals or
any propriety information to anyone outside the Restaurant. 21. Rude or improper behavior with
customers including the discussion of tips. 22. Smoking or eating in unapproved areas or during
unauthorized breaks. 23. Not parking in employee designated parking area. 24. Not entering and
exiting the restaurant through approved entrance. 25. Failure to comply with Restaurant’s personal
cleanliness and grooming standards. 26. Failure to comply with Restaurant’s uniform and dress
requirements. 27. Unauthorized operation, repair or attempt to repair machines, tools or equipment.
28. Failure to report safety hazards, equipment defects, accidents or injuries immediately to
management. Harassment It is this restaurant’s policy to treat all personnel with dignity and respect
and make personnel decisions without regard to race, sex, age, color, national origin, religion or
disability. We strive to provide everyone a workplace that is free of harassment of any kind.
Employees are encouraged to promptly report incidences of harassment. Sexual Harassment All of
our employees have a right to be free from sexual harassment. MOUTON’S BISTRO does not
condone actions, words, jokes or comments that a reasonable person would regard as sexually
harassing or coercive. Definition of Sexual Harassment Sexual harassment encompasses any
sexual attention, from either gender, that is unwanted and is defined as unwelcome advances,
requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when: Submission
is made an express or implied term or condition of employment or status in a class, program or
activity. Submission to or rejection of the behavior is used to make an employment or educational
decision (such as hiring, promotion or grading a course). The conduct has the purpose or effect of
unreasonably interfering with a person’s work or educational performance or creates an
intimidating, hostile or offensive environment for work or learning, including harassment in the
workplace from an outside party, such as a vendor. Harassment may take many forms, for
example:  Physical assault.  Direct or implied threats that submission to sexual advances will be a
condition of employment, work schedule, promotion, job assignments, evaluation, wages or any
other condition of employment.)  Direct propositions of a sexual nature.  Comments of a sexual
nature.  Sexually explicit statements, questions, jokes or anecdotes.  Unnecessary touching,
patting, hugging or brushing against a person’s body.  Remarks of a sexual nature about a
person’s clothing, body, sexual activity or previous sexual experience.  Employees need to be
concerned not only with the intent of their actions of this kind but also the effects; while sexual
harassment involves repeated, unwanted sexual attention, persons involved in isolated or
inadvertent incidents demonstrate insensitivity toward others. Repeated occurrences will be
considered intentional violations of the policy. Anyone who feels it necessary to discuss what may
appear to be sexual harassment should report the harassment promptly to at least two people who
are in a supervisory or management capacity. Your report will be kept as confidential as possible. A
prompt and thorough investigation will be made. If a claim is substantiated, the Company will take
immediate and appropriate action, including discipline and possible termination. Absences All
employees are expected to work on a regular, consistent basis and complete their regularly
scheduled hours per week. Excessive absenteeism may result in disciplinary action, up to and
including termination. Disciplinary action taken because of absenteeism will be considered on an
individual basis, following a review of the employee’s absentee and overall work record. If you are
going to be late or miss work, employees are expected to call and talk to a manager at least 2 hours
before they are scheduled to work. Any employee who does not call or report to work for two
consecutive shifts will be considered to have voluntarily resigned employment at Mouton’s Bistro.
Prior to taking a leave of absence for purposes of vacation, personal leave, military or jury duty, or
other planned absence, an Employee Leave Request Form, available from your Manager or
Supervisor, should be submitted to and approved by a manager. Employee Leave Requests should
be submitted at least two weeks prior to the scheduled leave date, unless the request is due to an
unexpected emergency. The nature of the emergency should then be shared with a manager. To
return to work from an accident or medical leave, all employees must present a doctor’s release.
Any employee who fails to return to work at the expiration of a personal leave of absence will be
deemed to have abandoned their job, unless MOUTON’S BISTRO is notified of a reason,
satisfactory to management, for not returning to work at the end of the leave of absence. Tardiness
Employees must be prepared to start work promptly at the beginning of the shift. Always arrive at
the Restaurant 10 to 15 minutes before your shift. Your scheduled time is the time you are expected
to be on your job, not arrive at the Restaurant. Repeated tardiness is grounds for termination.
Resignations You are requested to give a two-week notice of your plans to leave the restaurant. A
notice is important so that we have time to hire someone to take your place. Giving a two-week
notice is a professional courtesy and assures that you are eligible for re-hire and will not have a “left
without resignation notice” on your employment record. Time Clock Procedures You should arrive
at the restaurant 10 to 15 minutes before you are scheduled to start work. Notify the Manager on
duty that you have arrived for your shift. You may clock in within 5 minutes of the start of your shift.
All hourly employees are given an employee ID number to clock in and out on the Restaurant’s
timekeeping system. Tampering, altering, or falsifying time records or recording time on another
employee’s ID number is not allowed and may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination. Tip Reporting As an employee of a Restaurant, all the tips you receive, whether in cash
or included in a credit card transaction, is taxable income to you. You are required, by federal law,
to report and record your actual tips for each shift. At the end of each shift, tipped employees must
disclose on the Server Check-Out form, the amount of credit card tips and total tips less any tips
shared with any other employees. Your tips will be recorded and reflected in total on your paycheck
stub. Endorsement of your paycheck indicates that you acknowledge that your tip information on
the stub is accurate and correct. It is the employee’s responsibility to comply with IRS requirements
of reporting all your tip income. While you are responsible for reporting all of your tip income, the
Restaurant may be required to allocate additional tip income to any tipped employee that does not
declare at least 8% of their gross sales as tip income. We strongly encourage you to accurately
report your tip income. This will reduce the chances of you being audited by the IRS and allows you
to qualify for greater social security, unemployment and worker’s compensation benefits. Payroll
Checks Paychecks are available at the Restaurant every other Monday after 5pm. After payday,
you may pick up your paycheck during regular business hours. Please understand that it may be
difficult for anyone to be available to obtain your paycheck during peak business hours. Payroll
Deductions Your paycheck will indicate your gross earnings as well as deductions for federal and
state withholding taxes and social security and Medicare taxes. Federal and state withholding taxes
are authorized by you based on the information you furnished to us on form W-4. If you want an
explanation of your deductions or if you wish to change them in any way please see Ben Mouton As
per state law, the Restaurant complies with court orders in connection to garnishments from
employee paychecks as directed by the proper authorities. You will be notified of any court-ordered
payroll deductions. Change of Address We ask that you report any address changes to Ben Mouton
as soon as possible so your year end statement of income and deductions, form W-2, will be mailed
to the correct address. Lost Paychecks Report lost paychecks to Ben Mouton. We will stop payment
on the lost check and reissue you another check on the next payroll cycle. The reissued check will
incur a deduction equal to the bank stop payment charge. Family and Medical Leave An employee
who has been employed for at least 12 months and for at least 1,250 hours of service during the
previous 12 months, may be granted unpaid leave for one or more of the following reasons:  Birth
of son/daughter and in order to care for such son/daughter.  Placement of son/daughter with the
employee for adoption or foster care.  To care for a spouse, son, daughter or parent who has a
serious health condition.  A serious health condition that renders the employee incapable of
performing the functions of his/her position.  A total of 12 workweeks of leave during any 12-month
period may be granted under this policy. Such leave must be taken on a sustained or uninterrupted
basis, except that intermittent leave may be taken for serious health care of the employee, child,
spouse or parent. You must provide as much prior notice as reasonably possible. Holidays Due to
the nature of the restaurant business you may be required to work holidays. It is currently our policy
to close the Restaurant for business on the following holidays: Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day
and Easter Sunday. Vacations Vacations are provided by the Restaurant to enable employees to
leave their work environment for a period of time and must be taken within the year in which they
are earned. All full-time salaried employees who have been with the Restaurant for a consecutive
12 month period is eligible for a one week, paid vacation. Employees are considered full-time if they
averaged over 35 hours of work per week the previous year. Request forms (Employee Leave
Request) for vacation are available from the manager and are to be submitted to the employee’s
immediate supervisor and approved prior to granting vacation leave. Employees are asked to
submit requests for vacation at least one month prior to the scheduled vacation date, unless the
request is due to an unexpected situation. Efforts will be made to grant vacation time as requested,
but business needs may require an employee to adjust his or her vacation time. Worker’s
Compensation Worker’s compensation provides benefits for employees who suffer personal injury
from accidents or illnesses arising out of, and in the course of, their employment with the
Restaurant. An employee who is injured on the job, regardless of the severity of the injury or illness,
should: Report the occurrence to the manager on duty. The manager on duty will need to obtain
information as to exactly what happened, how the injury or illness occurred, the exact time and
location, as well as any witnesses to the occurrence. If an employee experiences a disabling work
injury, the nature of which necessitates an absence from work, Ben Mouton will provide the
employee with information concerning his or her lawful benefits. Employee Meals Employees
receive a $5 discount off the regular price of all menu items during each shift. Employee meals can
be purchased either before or after your shift or on a scheduled break. Employee Use of Social
Media Websites While Mouton’s Bistro encourages its employees to enjoy and make good use of
their off■duty time, certain activities on the part of employees may become a problem if they have
the effect of impairing the work of any employee; harassing, demeaning, or creating a hostile
working environment for any employee; disrupting the smooth and orderly flow of work within the
company; directly or indirectly disclosing confidential or proprietary information; or harming the
goodwill and reputation of Mouton’s Bistro among its customers or in the community at large. In the
area of social media (print, broadcast, digital, and online), employees may use such media in any
way they choose as long as such use does not produce the adverse consequences noted above.
For this reason, Mouton’s Bistro reminds its employees that the following guidelines apply in their
use of social media, both on and off duty: If an employee publishes any personal information about
themselves, another employee of [Mouton’s Bistro], a client, or a customer in any public medium
(print, broadcast, digital, or online) that:  Has the potential or effect of involving the employee, their
coworkers, or Mouton’s Bistro in any kind of dispute or conflict with other employees or third parties
 Interferes with the work of any employee;  Creates a harassing, demeaning, or hostile working
environment for any employee;  Disrupts the smooth and orderly flow of work within the office, or
the delivery of services to the company’s clients or customers:  Harms the goodwill and reputation
of Mouton’s Bistro among its customers or in the community at large;  Tends to place in doubt the
reliability, trustworthiness, or sound judgment of the person who is the subject of the information; or
 Reveals proprietary information or Mouton’s Bistro trade secrets;  The employee(s) responsible
for such problems will be subject to counseling and/or disciplinary action, up to and potentially
including termination of employment, depending upon the circumstances.  No employee of
Mouton’s Bistro may use company equipment or facilities for furtherance of non work related
activities or relationships without the express advance permission of Ben Mouton.  Employees who
conduct themselves in such a way that their actions and relationships with each other could
become the object of gossip among others in the office, or cause unfavorable publicity for Mouton’s
Bistro in the community, should be concerned that their conduct may be inconsistent with one or
more of the above guidelines. In such a situation, the employees involved should request guidance
from (a designated member of management) to discuss the possibility of a resolution that would
avoid such problems. Depending upon the circumstances, failure to seek such guidance may be
considered evidence of intent to conceal a violation of the policy and to hinder an investigation into
the matter.  Should you decide to create a personal blog, be sure to provide a clear disclaimer that
the views expressed in the blog are the author’s alone, and do not represent the views of Mouton’s
Bistro.  All information published on any employee blog(s) should comply with Mouton’s Bistro’s
confidentiality and disclosure of proprietary data policies. This also applies to comments posted on
other social networking sites, blogs and forums.  Be respectful to Mouton’s Bistro coworkers,
customers, clients, partners and competitors, and be mindful of your physical safety when posting
information about yourself or others on any forum. Describing intimate details of your personal and
social life, or providing information about your detailed comings and goings might be interpreted as
an invitation for further communication or even stalking and harassment that could prove dangerous
to your physical safety.  Social media activities should never interfere with work commitments. 
Your online presence can reflect on Mouton’s Bistro. Be aware that your comments, posts, or
actions captured via digital or film images can affect the image of Mouton’s Bistro.  Do not discuss
company clients, customers or partners without their express consent to do so.  Do not ignore
copyright laws, and cite or reference sources accurately. Remember that the prohibition again
plagiarism applies online.  Do not use any Mouton’s Bistro logos or trademarks without written
consent. The absence of explicit reference to a particular site does not limit the extent of the
application of this policy. If no policy or guideline exists, Mouton’s Bistro employees should use their
professional judgment and follow the most prudent course of action. If you are uncertain, consult
your supervisor or manager before proceeding. Customer Service Our restaurant exists only
because of customers, and in particular repeat customers who voluntarily choose to return here and
spend their money on our food and beverages. Without the customer we don’t have a restaurant,
they are the only reason we are here. As a result, taking care of our customers is our highest
priority, in fact a privilege, never an interruption. At Mouton’s Bistro the customer always comes
first! Customer Complaints Nobody enjoys being the recipient of customer complaints, but
complaints are to be expected as part of being in the hospitality business. Complaints can even be
viewed in a positive light if they are handled properly. Complaints can give us insights as to how to
make our Restaurant better, demanding customers force us to be our best and resolving complaints
satisfactorily can even increase customer loyalty IF they are handled properly. When faced with a
customer complaint:  Don’t get defensive and try to explain.  Remove the offending item
immediately.  Apologize for the problem and tell the customer you will take care of the problem.  If
you need the assistance of a manager, don’t hesitate to ask. Do everything you can to let the
customer you care and that this isn’t the kind of experience you want them to have at our
restaurant. Telephone Courtesy It is everyone’s responsibility to answer the phone. Always answer
the phone promptly, within two rings. Always answer in a friendly, polite manner: “Good morning,
afternoon, evening, thank you for calling Mouton’s Bistro Cedar Park, this is ________ how may I
help you? Respond to any questions that you are absolutely certain. If you are uncertain, ask the
person if you may put them on hold for a moment and quickly refer the call to a manager. Always
thank the person for calling. Always ask the caller for their name when they ask to speak to a
manager or customer. Management / Employee Relations Our managers are committed and
trained to provide you with the tools and positive working environment for you to do your job to the
best of your ability with minimal distractions. You will be treated with respect and dignity by all of our
management personnel and we will try our best to recognize and reward your hard work and
accomplishments.  We recognize there may be occasions for misunderstandings and problems to
come up. We want to clear up these types of situations in a fair and timely manner and in order to
do this we need your help in bringing them to our attention. We want you to know that
“management is never too busy to be informed of work-related problems, complaints or disputes of
any employee.”  If you have such a problem, you should promptly talk to a manager. They will
listen in an open, objective and courteous manner. We want to understand and solve If the problem
is not resolved to your satisfaction, you should take up the matter with Ben Mouton.  Every
necessary action will be taken to resolve a problem or settle a dispute in a fair and equitable
manner. As we said in the “Welcome Letter,” we recognize our employees as our most valuable
resource and we take all employee problems and complaints very seriously. No problem is too
small or insignificant and each issue will be given the utmost attention and consideration. Meetings
Staff meeting are held on a regular basis for your benefit as well as for the Restaurant. Meetings
are held for a variety of reasons and can include new menu offerings, upcoming promotions and
events, training, policies, etc. Such meetings are treated as a shift and attendance is mandatory.
Only management-approved absences will be accepted. Most meetings offer employees the
opportunity to provide valuable input for feedback and provide suggestions to enhance our working
environment and the operation of the Restaurant. Teamwork We cannot achieve our goals and
provide the highest levels of service to our customers without working together as a team.
Teamwork basically boils down to common courtesy and common sense. If a co-worker is
overloaded and you’re not, help them in any way you can. It’s only a matter of time before they will
return the favor. Pitch in to help a customer whether they are technically yours or not. If another
employee hasn’t quite caught on to something and you have, ask if you may suggest another way
to do it. Genuine teamwork makes for a much more enjoyable and satisfying work experience and
results in happier (and more generous) customers. Communication It is important for every
employee to have a good sense of “what’s going on” in the Restaurant. It is management’s
responsibility to keep everyone informed of ongoing changes and news affecting the Restaurant
and our people. Such communication takes place primarily in pre-shift meetings, general meetings
and by posting notices and information to the “bulletin board” located on the back of the kitchen
door. Safety Mouton’s Bistro is committed to maintaining a safe workplace for all of our employees.
The time to be conscious about safety is before an accident happens. Safety is everyone’s
responsibility and is a regular, ongoing part of everyone’s job. You will receive more specific,
detailed information and training on safety issues as an ongoing part of your employment. However,
here are some basic guidelines and safety rules to always keep in mind:  Wipe up spills
immediately.  Never run in hallways or the kitchen, always walk carefully. Even when it’s busy, take
small steps and pay attention.  Wear shoes with non-slip soles. They cost no more that standard
shoes. Ask your manager about where to purchase them.  Report defective equipment or tools to a
manager immediately.  Never operate equipment unless you have been trained how to use it
properly.  Pay special attention when using slicers. They are very sharp and move very fast. 
Wear nylon, no-cut gloves when cleaning slicers. If you don’t have a pair, see a manager.  Never
try to catch a falling knife. Knives are easier to replace than fingers.  Let people know when you’re
carrying anything hot. Don’t be shy, yell out something like, “HOT STUFF COMING THROUGH.” 
Don’t put hot food or plates in front of small children. Use proper lifting techniques. Never lift too
much. If it’s uncomfortable, make two trips or get some help. Remember to always bend at the
knees, lift with you legs, not your back. Sanitation We are obsessed with sanitation and food safety!
Due to the nature of the restaurant business, it is ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL that EVERYONE
follows safe food handling procedures. This is one area of the Restaurant where there is absolutely
no compromise. NEVER take shortcuts on food safety and handling. Every day we are entrusted
with the health and even lives of our customers. This is a huge responsibility, one that we must
never take lightly. While you will receive additional and ongoing training on food safety issues
following are some of the basic rules we ALWAYS follow and enforce: Keep your hands washed.
Always wash your hands after using the restroom, smoking, touching your hair, eating, sneezing or
coughing. If you use latex gloves, change them frequently. Sanitize everything. Besides clean
hands, use sanitizing solution to constantly keep counters, cutting surfaces, and utensils. This helps
to keep food handling areas and preparation tools free of bacteria. Prevent cross-contamination.
Cross-contamination occurs when raw meat comes in contact with other food that will be served
without further cooking. For example, never place raw chicken on a cutting board and then cut
vegetables for an uncooked product on the cutting board without first washing and sanitizing it first.
The same for utensils like knives and portioning tools always wash and sanitize them after every
use. Keep food at the proper temperatures. Potentially hazardous foods like meat, poultry, dairy
and fish should always be stored below 45o. Food that is cooking or in holding should always be
above 140o. Bacteria count on food grows rapidly between 45o and 140o so it’s imperative that our
food products spend a minimum amount of time in the “temperature danger zone.” Store food
correctly. Raw meat should always be stored below cooked or prepared food. Raw poultry is always
placed on the bottom shelf of the walk-in. Keep chemicals and cleaning products away from food
products. Dress Code To maintain our image as an exceptional, high quality restaurant we need to
dress the part. Following are detailed descriptions of dress for both the dining room and kitchen
positions. If you have any questions regarding our dress code please ask the manager on duty.
Dining Room Dress Code Shoes - non slip, close toed shoes. You can buy non slip shoes at most
large shoe stores. There are many more styles at www.shoesforcrews.com Pants & Belts - jeans,
black, or khaki pants, shorts, or skirt. Solid color belts must be worn with pants that have belt loops.
Shirts - clean black Mouton's t-shirt. You should have been provided 1 complimentary shirt. More
shirts can be purchased by ringing in a shirt and closing it out to cash. Present the closed out
receipt to a manager for another shirt. Appearance - Clean and well groomed hair. Hair pulled back
off the shoulder. Well groomed hands, fingernails and fingernail polish. Facial hair should be neat
and well trimmed. Accessories - No excessive cologne, perfume, make-up or jewelry. No earrings
longer than 1 inch. No hat or unauthorized buttons can be worn. An apron of your choosing. You
can find them at Ace Mart or Mission restaurant supply in Austin, or online at eBay or Amazon.
Bank - $20 bank of small bills is a required part of your uniform. The restaurant will not hold cash in
the register to provide you with the change you need all day every day. Kitchen Dress Code Shoes
- Black work shoes with non-slip soles that permit walking safely on wet or greasy floors. No tennis
shoes. There are many more styles at www.shoesforcrews.com Pants - Black pants or jeans. No
shorts. They must always be clean and well maintained. Shirts - black t-shirt or clean black
Mouton's t-shirt. You should have been provided 1 complimentary shirt. More shirts can be
purchased by having a server ring in a shirt and close it out to cash. Present the closed out receipt
to a manager for another shirt. Lead cook and any cook going onto the floor to run food must be
wearing a black chef coat or shirt. Appearance - Clean, well groomed hair, hands and fingernails.
Facial hair should be neat and well trimmed. Accessories - No excessive cologne, perfume,
make-up or jewelry. Hair restraints must be neat and in good taste. Hats - a hat or hair net. Hats
may not advertise alcohol. You must have something covering your head at all times while working
with food. Accidents and Emergency Situations Report all accidents, no matter how minor they
seem, to the manager on duty. In the event of an emergency, like an apparent injury or choking
situation, notify a manager immediately. Managers are responsible for administering CPR, choking
procedures or appropriate first aid. Crime and Robbery If you are ever involved in a robbery, DO
NOT RESIST. Statistics show that people, who resist, are three times more likely to be injured than
people who do not resist. The safety of you, your fellow employees and customers are our highest
priority. Don’t be a hero, always cooperate fully and do not resist! Fire Protection All employees
must know the specific location and operation of fire protection in the Restaurant. The Restaurant is
equipped with many fire-extinguishing systems in the ducts, hood, over the stoves and other
cooking equipment that contains a dry chemical. They can be set off immediately by pulling the ring
attached to each system. Be very specific before setting off a fire alarm or notifying someone to
take action. If the fire alarm sounds, assist guests to the nearest fire exit and out of the building
immediately. Tell them the restaurant is under “Fire Alarm Status” and it is their responsibility to
leave the restaurant through the nearest exit. Alcohol Serving Policy As a Restaurant that sells
alcoholic beverages, we are committed to sensible, socially responsible consumption of alcohol.
We help to ensure our customers’ and other members of the community’s safety by educating our
employees on responsible service and management of alcohol. We want our customers to enjoy
alcoholic beverages in moderation, but if a customer shows signs of drinking too much, a manager
should become informed immediately. Employees who serve customers, must abide by the
Restaurant’s policies on alcoholic beverage service: 1. We will not serve alcoholic beverages to an
intoxicated person. 2. We will not knowingly serve a person alcoholic beverages to a person under
the legal drinking age. It is our policy to card anyone who appears to be under 30 years old. 3. We
will offer nonalcoholic alternatives such as soft drinks, coffee, juice, etc. 4. The Restaurant will
provide free taxi service for intoxicated customers. Proprietary & Confidential Information It is illegal
to steal, copy or communicate or transmit a former employer’s confidential or proprietary
information. Proprietary information is defined as “the whole or any part of any scientific or technical
information, design, process, procedure, formula, or improvement that has value and that the owner
has taken measures to prevent from becoming available to persons other than those selected by
the owner to have access for limited purposes.” Our internal business practices, procedures and
recipes are of great value to MOUTON’S BISTRO. Employees are not to disclose any proprietary
processes or recipes to any person unless directed to by MOUTON’S BISTRO’s owners.
MOUTON’S BISTRO will institute civil action against anyone who violates this policy. Solicitation
Employees - There should be no solicitation or distribution of literature of any kind by any employee
during actual working time of the employee soliciting or the employee being solicited. Working time
does not include lunch and rest breaks. Any employee who violates any part of this policy will be
subject to counseling and disciplinary action up to and including dismissal. Non-Employees -
Non-employees are prohibited from soliciting and distributing literature at all times anywhere on
Company property. Non-employees have no right of access to any area of the premises other than
areas open to the public, and then only in conjunction with the area’s public use. This Employee
Handbook does not constitute a contract of employment either in whole or in part. The Company,
reserves the right to add, delete, or change any portion of the Employee Handbook with or without
notice. FOR THE EMPLOYEE’S INFORMATION: Your employment status:_______ Full Time
_______ Part Time Your name:______________________________________________ General
Manager’s Name: __________________________________ Your starting date:
_________________________________________ I acknowledge receipt of, and have read, the
Employee Handbook that outlines my benefits and obligations as an employee of MOUTON’S
BISTRO. I understand the Standards of Conduct and each of the rules and regulations which I am
expected to follow, as well as the additional policies. I agree to abide by all of them. All employees
are expected to conform their conduct to the rules and regulations as set out in this handbook, and
understand that they are at-will employees. The contents of any Employee Handbook, including this
one, that may be distributed during the course of their employment shall not be construed to be a
contract or in any way binding. The Company reserves the right to change, at its discretion, the
contents of this handbook. POLICY STATEMENT This handbook is a general guide and provisions
of this handbook do not constitute an employment agreement (contract) or a guarantee of
continued employment. It is simply intended to outline the benefits and work requirements for all
employees. It is further understood that the Company reserves the right to change the provisions in
this handbook at any time. It is policy of the Company that employment and compensation of any
employee is at will and can be terminated with or without cause, at any time, at the option of the
employee or at the option of the Company. _________________________________ Manager’s
Signature Date _________________________________ 
